Welcome to the Python for Data Science, AI, and Development course. After completing this course, you'll possess the basic knowledge of Python and acquire a good understanding of different data types. You’ll also learn to use lists and tuples, dictionaries, and Python sets. Additionally, you’ll acquire the concepts of condition and branching and will know how to implement loops, create functions, perform exception handling, and create objects. Furthermore, you’ll be proficient in reading and writing files and will be able to implement unique ways to collect data using APIs and web scraping. In addition to the module labs, you'll prove your skills in a peer-graded project and your overall knowledge with the final quiz.

Course Content

This course is divided into five modules. You should set a goal to complete at least one module per week.

Module 1: Python Basics

    About the Course

    Types

    Expressions and Variables

    String Operations

Module 2: Python Data Structures

    Lists and Tuples

    Dictionaries

    Sets

Module 3: Python Programming Fundamentals

    Conditions and Branching

    Loops

    Functions

    Exception Handling

    Objects and Classes

    Practice with Python Programming Fundamentals

Module 4: Working with Data in Python

    Reading and Writing Files with Open

    Pandas

    Numpy in Python

Module 5: APIs and Data Collection

    Simple APIs

    REST APIs, Web Scraping, and Working with Files

    Final Exam

The course contains a variety of learning assets: Videos, activities, labs, projects, practice, graded quizzes, and readings. The videos and readings present the instruction. Labs and activities support that instruction with hands-on learning experiences. Discussions allow you to interact and learn from your peers. A peer-review project that mimics real-world scenarios encourage you to showcase your skills, Practice quizzes enable you to test your knowledge of what you learned. Finally, graded quizzes indicate how well you have learned the course concepts.

Enjoy the course!
